Code, Test, Refine
==================

Basic structure of HTML5 document:

 1. ```<!DOCTYPE html>``` The doctype declaration, of which there are
    maybe a dozen varieties.
 2. ```<html>``` Open tag for html
 3. ```<head>``` Head open tag
 4. ```</head>``` Head closing tag
 5. ```<body>``` Body open tag
 6. ```</body>``` Body closing tag
 7. ```</html>``` Closing tag for html

General coding recommendations
 - All coding should be in lowercase, especially referencing file names.
   Many web servers run on case-sensitive filesystems.
 - File names should not have spaces; they complicate using those files,
   requiring quoting or escaping.
   
Tags
----

Tags are keywords, which are enclosed in angle brackets, ``<tag>``.

Empty or standalone tags exist without a partner, and may take
arguments/parameters/attributes. The ``img`` tag, for instance, would
have a ``src=`` and an ``alt`` attribute.

Open/closing tag structure follows the same premise, where a matched
pair opens and closes an environment or group. A closing tag usually
resembles an open tag, with a ``/`` prepended to the tag proper. For
example:
```<h1>Text formatted as heading 1</h1>```

When tags are nested, for example, a word in a paragraph being
emphazised, the closing tag for the inner or nested tag should be closed
before the outer tag is closed. ```<p><i>Italic words!</i></p>```

Common errors:
 - Unmatched tags. This can be avoided by coding both the matched tags
   in one shot, and then inserting the content needed between those
   tags.
   
[[Best Practices]]

Attributes
----------

Attributes usually take a form similar to variable initialization, where
the attribute is given as a bareword followed by an assignment operator,
which is to say, the equals sign, and then followed by the value, which
only _needs_ to be wrapped in quotes _if_ it has spaces. However,
wrapping any given value in quotes won't break anything, so it is good
practice to wrap all values in quotes. For example:
```attribute="value"```

A boolean attribute is usually entered as just the bareword.
```checked``` is one such example.

Two special attributes are ``id`` and ``class``. ``class`` is referenced
by CSS, to assign styles. Many tags can have the same class. ``id`` is
also referenced by CSS, but generally by javascript to identify an
element, and only one element can have a given id.
