From http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3477333/ddg#3477374

What is the difference between POST and GET

GET and POST are two different types of HTTP requests.

According to Wikipedia:

GET requests a representation of the specified resource. Note that GET
should not be used for operations that cause side-effects, such as using
it for taking actions in web applications. One reason for this is that
GET may be used arbitrarily by robots or crawlers, which should not need
to consider the side effects that a request should cause.

and

POST submits data to be processed (e.g., from an HTML form) to the
identified resource. The data is included in the body of the request.
This may result in the creation of a new resource or the updates of
existing resources or both.

So essentially GET is used to retrieve remote data, and POST is used to
insert/update remote data.

HTTP/1.1 specification (RFC 2616) section 9 Method Definitions contains
more information on GET and POST as well as the other HTTP methods, if
you are interested.

In addition to explaining the intended uses of each method, the spec
also provides at least one practical reason for why GET should only be
used to retrieve data:

Authors of services which use the HTTP protocol SHOULD NOT use GET based
forms for the submission of sensitive data, because this will cause this
data to be encoded in the Request-URI. Many existing servers, proxies,
and user agents will log the request URI in some place where it might be
visible to third parties. Servers can use POST-based form submission
instead

Finally, an important consideration when using GET for AJAX requests is
that some browsers - IE in particular - will cache the results of a GET
request. So if you, for example, poll using the same GET request you
will always get back the same results, even if the data you are querying
is being updated server-side. One way to alleviate this problem is to
make the URL unique for each request by appending a timestamp.

--Justin Ethier
